.\" Copyright (c) Anthony L Shipman 2015
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice immediately at the beginning of the file, without modification,
.\"    this list of conditions, and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR
.\" ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.Dd October 5, 2015
.Dt LIBMIMEMAGIC
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm getMimeType
.Nd MIME type recognition
.Sh LIBRARY
MIME type recognition (libmimemagic, -lmimemagic)
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In mimemagic.h
.Ft int
.Fn getMimeType "const unsigned char* buf" "size_t len" "char** mime" "int flags"
.Sh DESCRIPTION
This function detects the MIME type of the data in the buffer. It is compiled
automatically from the same decision data used by the libmagic library.
The
.Ar flags
argument can be 
.Bl -tag -width MAGIC_COMPRESS
.It Dv MimeMagicNone
Normal operation
.It Dv MimeMagicNoTryText
Avoid trying to recognise plain text and its encoding.
.El
.Sh RETURN VALUES
The function
returns a value greater than 0 if a MIME type was recognised.
It returns 0 if no MIME type was recognised. It returns -1 
if no MIME type was recognised but one might be if a larger
sample of data was supplied.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr file,
.Xr magic
.Sh AUTHORS
.An Anthony L Shipman
